Unsupervised learning finds hidden patterns or intrinsic structures in data. 
It is used to draw inferences from datasets consisting of input data without labeled responses.
Clustering is the most common unsupervised learning technique. 
It is used for exploratory data analysis to find hidden patterns or groupings in data. 
Applications for cluster analysis include gene sequence analysis, market research, and object recognition.
For example, if a cell phone company wants optimize the locations where they build cell phone towers, 
they can use machine learning to estimate the number of clusters of people relying on their towers.
A phone can only talk to one tower at a time, 
so the team uses clustering algorithms to design the best placement of cell towers to optimize signal reception for groups, or clusters, of their customers.
Classification techniques predict discrete responses.
for example, whether an email is genuine or spam, or whether a tumor is cancerous or benign. 
Classification models classify input data into categories. 
Typical applications include medical imaging, speech recognition, and credit scoring.
Supervised machine learning builds a model that makes predictions based on evidence in the presence of uncertainty.
A supervised learning algorithm takes a known set of input data and known responses to the data and trains a model to generate reasonable predictions for the response to new data.
Use supervised learning if you have known data for the output you are trying to predict.
Machine learning algorithms find natural patterns in data that generate insight and help you make better decisions and predictions.
They are used every day to make critical decisions in medical diagnosis, stock trading, energy load forecasting, and more.
For example, media sites rely on machine learning to sift through millions of options to give you song or movie recommendations.
Retailers use it to gain insight into their customers¡¯ purchasing behavior.
Machine learning is a fast growing trend in the health care industry,
thanks to the advent of wearable devices and sensors that can use data to assess a patient health in real time.
The technology can also help medical experts analyze data to identify trends or red flags that may lead to improved diagnoses and treatment. 
Finding new energy sources.
Analyzing minerals in the ground.
Predicting refinery sensor failure.
Streamlining oil distribution to make it more efficient and cost effective.
The number of machine learning use cases for this industry is vast and still expanding.
Analyzing data to identify patterns and trends is key to the transportation industry, 
which relies on making routes more efficient and predicting potential problems to increase profitability.
The data analysis and modeling aspects of machine learning are important tools to delivery companies,
public transportation and other transportation organizations.
Government agencies such as public safety and utilities have a particular need for machine learning since they have multiple sources of data that can be mined for insights.
Analyzing sensor data, for example, identifies ways to increase efficiency and save money.
Machine learning can also help detect fraud and minimize identity theft.
Banks and other businesses in the financial industry use machine learning technology for two key purposes to identify important insights in data, and prevent fraud.
The insights can identify investment opportunities, or help investors know when to trade.
Data mining can also identify clients with high risk profiles, or use cybersurveillance to pinpoint warning signs of fraud.
In the near term, the goal of keeping AI impact on society beneficial motivates research in many areas,
from economics and law to technical topics such as verification, validity, security and control.
Whereas it may be little more than a minor nuisance if your laptop crashes or gets hacked,
it becomes all the more important that an AI system does what you want it to do if it controls your car, your airplane,
your pacemaker, your automated trading system or your power grid.
Another short-term challenge is preventing a devastating arms race in lethal autonomous weapons.
In the long term, an important question is what will happen if the quest for strong AI succeeds and an AI system becomes better than humans at all cognitive tasks.
As pointed out by Good in 1965, designing smarter AI systems is itself a cognitive task.
Such a system could potentially undergo recursive self improvement,
triggering an intelligence explosion leaving human intellect far behind.
By inventing revolutionary new technologies,
such a superintelligence might help us eradicate war, disease, and poverty, and so the creation of strong AI might be the biggest event in human history.
Some experts have expressed concern, though, that it might also be the last, unless we learn to align the goals of the AI with ours before it becomes superintelligent.
There are some who question whether strong AI will ever be achieved,
and others who insist that the creation of superintelligent AI is guaranteed to be beneficial.
At FLI we recognize both of these possibilities,
but also recognize the potential for an artificial intelligence system to intentionally or unintentionally cause great harm.
We believe research today will help us better prepare for and prevent such potentially negative consequences in the future,
thus enjoying the benefits of AI while avoiding pitfalls.